what if life was like a multiple-choice
test a b c and d all of the complexities
of life reduced to four rudimentary
choices of course there might be more
than one right answer the thing is life
is full of choices sometimes we ignore
our options because they're difficult or
uncomfortable but options are always
there no matter the situation you are
always armed with the power of choice
yes choices of power use it don't abuse
it so everyone has choices it's a fact
of life
unfortunately it's also a fact that
bullying exists you can block it out you
can cover it up but it's always there
like an underlying stink that you can't
get rid of I have a proposition what if
we confront bullying instead of ignoring
it what if we betray the victims as
strong
rather than weak what if we give the
bullies options rather than condemn them
what if we empower the victim and the
bully three choices let's say your
friends backstab
they make fun of you online and you feel
like you have nowhere to turn
despite how powerless you may feel
you're standing at a crossroads you have
options for example a you can believe
them B you can get down on yourself C
you can worsen the situation D you can
lose yourself in alcohol and potentially
fatal pills do all of these options
sound bad they should this is how you
see the world when you think like a
victim
but if you change your mindset you
reveal a wealth of new options a you can
brush off the cynics be you can find
someone who will listen see you can
remove yourself from the situation d you
can ask for help
sure you can't control your bullies but
you can control how you react despite
how it may seem you hold some degree of
power
don't let your critics convince you
otherwise let's flip the coin what if
you're not the victim but the bully
let's say you come from a troubled home
each day you take out your resentment on
your peers who learn to fear you though
you're ashamed of your behavior you
can't imagine another way to be consider
your options a you can continue bringing
others down B you can take out your rage
on yourself C you can reject all
attempts to help you d you can become
the criminal everyone expects you to be
or a you can bring others up B you can
forgive yourself
C you can accept help from others D you
can prove the naysayers wrong in the end
the choice is yours whether you're the
bully or the victim you can choose to
channel your emotions into tearing
others down or you can fuel them into
the creation of something beautiful life
isn't as simple as a B C and D but you
always have choices you should never
feel trapped powerless or isolated
because you hold the key to your own
release use the power of choice to set
yourself free
you